README.md, before:

FIXED
=====

A Common Lisp fixed-point numeric type package intended to be similar to the Ada language type.  The focus is providing a useful abstraction for known reliable precision in a specific range.  This package uses CLOS to encapsulate the underlying type.  It does not provide an efficient mechanism for implementing SIMD operations.

Also provided is a utility package (:fixed/real-time) providing a portable fixed-point type representing the internal real time.

Usage
=====

```lisp
;; Ordinary power-of-2 fixed point type that supports a resolution of 1/10.
;; This is represented by a 1/16 resolution value.
(defdelta foo 1/10)

;; Fixed point type with precise resolution
;; This is represented by a 1/10 resolution value.
(defdelta bar 1/10 :small 1/10)

;; Adding range info
(defdelta foobar 0.01 :small 0.01 :low 0.00 :high 1.00)
(defparameter fb (make-foobar 0.5))

(f+ fb (make-foobar 1/2))   ;; OK
(f+ fb (make-foobar 0.51))  ;; ERROR

(setf (foobar fb) 0.49)
(f+ fb (make-foobar 0.51)) ;; OK
```

FIXED/REAL-TIME
===============

A utility package that implements a fixed-point type for internal real time.

```lisp
;; Get the current internal real time as a fixed point
(defparameter the-time (current-time))
;; => #<REAL-TIME 522918.199>

;; do some stuff

;; calculate deltat
(f- (current-time) the-time)
;; => #<REAL-TIME 15.616>
```

Fixed-point Reader Macro
========================

A fixed-point reader macro provides a method to input fixed-point literals in decimal form.  The reader macro uses the Q format to define a fixed-point spec for the following value.

e.g.

```lisp
;; Read in fixed-point literals that can be represented exactly by a Q8 spec.
#Q8 1.5
;; => 3/2

#Q8 0.0078125
;; => 1/128

;; Read in a fixed-point literal that can be represented exactly by a Q3 spec, and one that can't.
#Q3 1.5
;; => 3/2

#Q3 0.0078125
;; ERROR: 0.0078125 is not a Q3
```

Bounds checking can also be performed when the maximum number of useable bits are provided in the Q spec.

```lisp
;; Read in the most positive Q7.8 value.
#Q7.8 255.99609375
;; => 65535/256

#Q7.8 256.0
;; => Error: 256.0 is not a #Q7.8
```

Future Work
===========
- Fixed-point reader macro improvements
  - Decimal fixed-point
  - Read into a superclass of defined delta types
- Determine if the second return value from rounding operations is in the best form.

License
=======

MIT

Commit message:

Implement decimal reader in parallel with ordinary.

README.md, after:

FIXED
=====

A Common Lisp fixed-point numeric type package intended to be similar to the Ada language type.  The focus is providing a useful abstraction for known reliable precision in a specific range.  This package uses CLOS to encapsulate the underlying type.  It does not provide an efficient mechanism for implementing SIMD operations.

Also provided is a utility package (:fixed/real-time) providing a portable fixed-point type representing the internal real time.

Usage
=====

```lisp
;; Ordinary power-of-2 fixed point type that supports a resolution of 1/10.
;; This is represented by a 1/16 resolution value.
(defdelta foo 1/10)

;; Fixed point type with precise resolution
;; This is represented by a 1/10 resolution value.
(defdelta bar 1/10 :small 1/10)

;; Adding range info
(defdelta foobar 0.01 :small 0.01 :low 0.00 :high 1.00)
(defparameter fb (make-foobar 0.5))

(f+ fb (make-foobar 1/2))   ;; OK
(f+ fb (make-foobar 0.51))  ;; ERROR

(setf (foobar fb) 0.49)
(f+ fb (make-foobar 0.51)) ;; OK
```

FIXED/REAL-TIME
===============

A utility package that implements a fixed-point type for internal real time.

```lisp
;; Get the current internal real time as a fixed point
(defparameter the-time (current-time))
;; => #<REAL-TIME 522918.199>

;; do some stuff

;; calculate deltat
(f- (current-time) the-time)
;; => #<REAL-TIME 15.616>
```

Fixed-point Reader Macro
========================

A fixed-point reader macro provides a method to input fixed-point literals in decimal form.  The reader macro uses the Q format to define a fixed-point spec for the following value.

Install the reader macro as a Q dispatch on # with `(install-q-reader)`.

e.g.

```lisp
;; Read in fixed-point literals that can be represented exactly by a Q8 spec.
#Q8 1.5
;; => 3/2

#Q8 0.0078125
;; => 1/128

;; Read in a fixed-point literal that can be represented exactly by a Q3 spec, and one that can't.
#Q3 1.5
;; => 3/2

#Q3 0.0078125
;; ERROR: 0.0078125 is not a Q3
```

Bounds checking can also be performed when the maximum number of useable bits are provided in the Q spec.

```lisp
;; Read in the most positive Q7.8 value.
#Q7.8 255.99609375
;; => 65535/256

#Q7.8 256.0
;; => Error: 256.0 is not a #Q7.8
```

Future Work
===========
- Fixed-point reader macro improvements
  - Decimal fixed-point
  - Read into a superclass of defined delta types
- Determine if the second return value from rounding operations is in the best form.

License
=======

MIT
